
# Designwerk EXI Converter Library
A C++ library with Python bindings ([Pybind11](https://pybind11.readthedocs.io/en/stable/basics.html)) to encode and decode json strings to EXI and back.
It is a drop-in replacement for the [RISE-V2G](https://github.com/SwitchEV/RISE-V2G/tree/master/RISE-V2G-Shared/src/main/java/com/v2gclarity/risev2g/shared/exiCodec)
Java ExiCodec unsed by the [iso15118](https://github.com/SwitchEV/iso15118) python implementation.

Implemented are messages to decode and encode the following protocols:
- V2G AppProtocol (namespace: `urn:iso:15118:2:2010:AppProtocol`)
- DIN70121 (namespace: `urn:din:70121:2012:MsgDef`)
- ISO15118-2 (namespace: `urn:iso:15118:2:2013:MsgDef`)


The library (`lib/library.c/.h`) mainly consists of C++ code generated by a Python script (`code_generator/main.py`) and the Python bindings 
provided by Pybind11. The Python script takes the XSD definition from `schemas/` for the specified protocol and 
generates a tree of function calls according to [Efficient XML Interchange](https://www.w3.org/TR/exi/) standard.
The whole generating and building process is controlled by CMake.


## Library usage with iso15118
  
1. Install dependencies: `pip3 install wheel pybind11 xmlschema` (either install pybind11 systemwide, with pipx or in a venv)
2. Create the `version.py` file containing the desired version (e.g. 0.1) for the library: `./set-version.sh . 0.1`
3. Run `pip3 install .` to compile the sources and install the library to python your local python/site-packages
4. Add the `lib/cpp_exi_codec.py` to your iso1518 sources
5. Instantiate the `CppExiCodec` in the iso15118 code by calling `CommunicationSessionHandler(self._config, CppExiCodec(), self._evse_controller)`


## Testing
To test the functionality there are unittests and integration tests for each implemented protocol (see `test/`).

As a reference for testing and implementing we used the [OpenV2G](https://openv2g.sourceforge.net/) c-library, which consists of
generated code but without an opensource code generator.

You can run all unittests by caling `./run.sh unittests`. A junit test report will be created in `test-reports/` directory.
Additionally a test [coverage report](test-coverage/cpp_html/index.html) will be generated in `test-coverage/` directory.

(!) Testing uses the Library in "debug" build, which adds a lot more debug output.

## Converter Tool
Simple tool to interface with the EXI Converter Library. To build it run `./run.sh converter_tool` and it will be available in `build/` directory.

### Binary EXI to JSON String
Example:

`./converter_tool decode 8098023c17ef4aa4d723b151e020310d20c4c8cd115cc4c8cc115ea200 urn:iso:15118:2:2013:MsgDef`

Results in:
```
{"V2G_Message":{"Header":{"SessionID":"F05FBD2A935C8EC5"},"Body":{"SessionSetupRes":{"ResponseCode":"OK_NewSessionEstablished","EVSEID":"CH123DW123","EVSETimeStamp":277130}}}}
```

## Performance
There is a performance test script to check how fast the library including pybind11 bindings is (`converter_tool/performance.py`).

On our AMD PC we got a 10us average for decoding/encoding one message: 
```
decoding and encoding all messages for 10000 times: mean=0.010ms, max=0.104ms, min=0.003ms
```